`Jun 21, 2023` - I'm gonna call it "Public employee handbook, built as a static website, using Johnny Decimal system."

`Jun 20, 2023` - I'm brewing these 3 ideas together:

1. [Johnny•Decimal](https://johnnydecimal.com/) system to organise projects.
2. Internal ENG documentation, like [PostHog](https://posthog.com/docs/how-posthog-works) and [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/company/culture/all-remote/all-remote-vs-hybrid-remote-comparison/).
3. Async communications in distributed teams, promoted by [Zulip](https://zulip.com/).


`Jun 20, 2023` - This is golden: [Why Remote Works](https://cerebralab.com/Why_Remote_Works) by George at cerebralab.
My favorite part:

> Management dynamics change a lot, and recruiting or “growing” new managers become very different.
> Office environments should select social-butterfly managers with pitch-perfect verbal communication and an ability to organize and lead meetings, as well as micro-manage in certain cases.
>
> The ideal remote company manager is someone whose face is never seen, potentially just an AGI somewhere in a swiss bunker, who’s an excellent writer, reviewer, able to react to questions and ideas on slack with lightning-fast speed at any hour of the day, able to hold and build accurate in-depth models of the product or even whole business.
>
> I’d say remote managers are hard to find; They probably look (and smell) a lot more like engineers than suits.

This clicks with me on many levels. I used to think that Remote just doesn't work for lazy managers who can't write down their vision clearly.
But now I see, that calling them "lazy" is harsh and, also, wrong.
Being a remote manager is a separate skill, that is not tought much anywhere.
It's also hard to master, and very tiny percent of managers know it.

It's pretty easy for engineers to become remote.
To take an existing enterprise and train all managers to be productive in remote is almost impossible.

`Jun 17, 2023` - whenever you say something stupid Santa Claus kills one gnome. Which is also stupid to say. So it makes it two gnomes each time. 

`Jun 15, 2023` - Quick non-senstive abbreviation to mark especially sensitive critical code sections: TTCLYMOIWTYMLYTTC - Treat This Code Like Your Mamma Or I Will Treat Your Mamma Like You Treated This Code
