`Jan 27, 2024` - Sharpest pencil in box tears the paper.

`Jan 24, 2024` - [](/12_articles/52-git-aliases.md)

`Jan 23, 2024` - One thing that seems to be a upside of Golang as compared to Python, is that it's harder to do the wrong thing. Which is true due to typing, obviously. But also for the toolset.
With Python, you gotta be disciplined to keep your third-party requirements in order. It's not much work, but you also can get away without doing it. And if there's no one to catch you in action, this might bite years later.
You hire smart people, who know their stuff, but don't know Python (and are not really into learning the advanced topics of Python, because they are hired for the stuff they know well).
And they do whatever is easier to get things done.
And it's not always the right thing to do.

The path of least resistance in Python is:
- no type annotations
- no linter
- no autoformatter
- no requirement files (and no version pinning)
- no packaging
- no meaningful module and class breakdown
- no sensible docstrings or docs website.

I'm not saying this is how all the projects go.
But this is what you might get if you don't put any experienced folks on the project.

Whereas with Golang, you have to get the most of the things right, or it won't work at all.
:mic-drop:

`Jan 15, 2024` - Listening to [Дельфин — ПРОЩАЙ ОРУЖИЕ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hDlGGCXnUwA).
From song to song, he touches on the same set of topics.
These are the same topics he touched on in his previous album.
And the album before that.
It's as if a person has, say, 3-4 major themes in life.
And whenever he gets inspiration, it's gonna be something along those lines.
This made me think about the major themes for me and the people I know.
So far, the morning slumber theory checks out.

Lil' help from GPT4:

> **Psychology and Personal Development:** In psychology, especially in the field of personality and identity studies, there's an understanding that people often have core beliefs, values, and experiences that shape their identity and worldview.
> This is sometimes explored in the context of life stories or narrative identity, where people construct their identities based on key life events and themes.
>
> **Literary Studies:** In literature, this concept is often discussed in terms of an author's thematic preoccupations or motifs.
> Some authors and artists are known for returning to the same themes, questions, or motifs throughout their work, which can be a reflection of their personal obsessions, experiences, or worldview.

**Keywords:** core beliefs, core values, cornerstone, identity, worldview, key life events, themes, thematic preoccupation, motifs.

`Jan 11, 2024` - This Herbert guy, I've got questions.
Is he happy? Does he feel fulfilled and content?
Is he doing it out of passion, or is there someone else paying him to do it?
Does he feel like a robot? Did he choose this life?
Is it a stepping stone to achieve something different?

`Jan 11, 2024` - Distinction without differentiation, efficiency without effectiveness.

`Jan 06, 2024` - Set up the Apple Weather app to ping you whenever it rains in Seattle, and never pick up your phone to an empty notification screen.

`Jan 06, 2024` - Picture a person in a spacious room. His name is Herbert.
He's a scientist, and he studies and works all day long without any need to go out, make food, do laundry, or anything. 
He has no distractions; he's fully focused on his work.
No Netflix, no games, no TV at all.
Yet, he has access to all the information he needs for work.
No people, except for brief visits of housekeeping.
A perfectly balanced diet, regular sleep schedule, no viruses, no disturbances.

`Jan 05, 2024` - Another example of the situation I can't quite put my finger on. When you assemble an IKEA cabinet with two kinds of bolts, a long one and a slightly shorter one.
And it's really hard to tell which one you have in hand unless you put them next to each other.
So, when you start assembling the cabinet, you put a shorter bolt in place and keep assembling until, at the last step, you are left with the longer bolt, and you realize that you actually need a shorter bolt which you used at the first step. Now, you have to disassemble the cabinet to switch the bolts.
It's a simple mistake that is not obvious at the moment but comes up later when it's harder to fix it.

`Jan 04, 2024` - Here is a bureaucratic game idea.
Classic arcade game setting with a top-down view and simple cartoonish graphics.

**First level.** 
You stand in line, and the line moves slowly (left to right on the screen).
Each person in front of you moves a split second after the person in front of them.
Your goal is to catch up as quickly as possible.

**Second level.**
There are human hunters standing a few people after you, and they are shooting at you.
You must dodge their bullets, and when you dodge, the bullet kills a person in front of you.
When the person in front of you dies, you can take their spot, which speeds up your progressions through the line.

**Third level.**
While standing in line, you also need to fill in a form.
This form includes some math quizzes.
While filling out the form, you keep dodging the bullets, making sure that bullets don't hit the person who will be accepting your form who stands in front of you.

I should try building it using Rosebud: [Invite link](https://rosebud.ai/?referralCode=e0sslhs&refSource=copy), [Launch HN post](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38868185)
