`Feb 13, 2026` - The thought of tiny flowers in a winter garden didn't leave my head for some time,
so today I vibed a wrapper around [Mozilla Readability](https://github.com/mozilla/readability) library
(actually, a [port](https://github.com/giulianopz/go-readability)
by [Giuliano Panzironi](https://giulianopz.github.io)).

It fetches a page from a given URL, passes it through main content extraction and cleaning,
and presents in a distraction free layout using Solarized Dark theme.

Here's an example of what it looks like:

[https://reader.demin.dev/?url=https://peter.demin.dev/life/feb-05-2026_0.html](https://reader.demin.dev/?url=https://peter.demin.dev/life/feb-05-2026_0.html)

The evening I spent openining random pages in full-screen mode and enjoying distraction free content.

In the spirit of minimalism I made this service a socket-activated Go binary.
So it doesn't take any of the precious RAM on my tiny VPS when idle,
but also has a very small runtime footprint:

```
○ reader-api.service - Reader extractor API
     Loaded: loaded (/etc/systemd/system/reader-api.service; static)
     Active: inactive (dead) since Sat 2026-02-14 05:44:36 UTC; 3min 13s ago
   Duration: 68ms
 Invocation: 03e5cdeca63e4b60bc0d3c073ed2872a
TriggeredBy: ● reader-api.socket
    Process: 1325849 ExecStart=/opt/reader/reader (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)
   Main PID: 1325849 (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)
   Mem peak: 3.2M
        CPU: 45ms

Feb 14 05:44:36 demin-dev systemd[1]: Started reader-api.service - Reader extractor API.
Feb 14 05:44:36 demin-dev systemd[1]: reader-api.service: Deactivated successfully.
Feb 14 05:44:36 demin-dev reader[1325849]: 2026/02/14 05:44:36 listening on systemd activation socket
```

Can it get more minimal than that? I don't think so.

Please don't scrape whole internet through my proxy.


`Feb 11, 2026` - Changed my atom feed to link each item to a dedicated page (which is otherwise unreachable from the website).

`Feb 11, 2026` - My response to the AI panic "LLM agents are so good, they are going to replace software engineers":

1. Amount of work is unbound, you can't run out of it.
   Companies hire engineers to push more features to reach more markets.
   They don't need less people to do the same amount of work.
   The need more faster people to stay competitive.
2. Companies don't hire software engineers for their coding skills.
   They hire problem owners who deliver solutions.
   More productive problem solvers means more business to run, not less people.

`Feb 05, 2026` - Today I learned *why* is it bad to put knives into a dishwasher.
I thought it's because they bounce from the water streams and bump into other silverware and the cage.
But the primary reason is combination of strong detergent and high water temperature for prolonged time.
It weakens blade's edge and may degrade a handle, if it's wooden or made of a cheap plastic.
The difference in sharpness between a hand-washed and dishwashed knives is drammatic.
The sharp edge life can be reduced from a year down to a month.
