`Mar 24, 2026` - Here's how I like to structure application's entry point (aka `main()`).

1. It's responsibility is to provide CLI interface to the library.
2. It parses CLI arguments, loads configuration files, constructs the processing pipeline and kicks it off.
3. Each step might be extracted into a separate function/class/module as it grows in complexity.
4. One common pattern is to construct intermiate immutable configuration object from arguments and configuration files and pass down to a dedicated factory.
   This way factory is easy to reuse and test without working around arguments parsing.
   On the cons side, each parameter spreads over three places: CLI, intermediate config, actor constructor.
5. The same patterns works well for both local scripts and API services.

This is mostly common sense, and I've seen more specific and more generic versions of this design many times.
I never meant to write it down, as there's no novelty in clean code layout, until I made a habbit of explaining this to LLMs over and over.

`Mar 09, 2026` - I enjoyed ["Verification debt: the hidden cost of AI-generated code"](https://fazy.medium.com/agentic-coding-ais-adolescence-b0d13452f981) by Lars Janssen.
Author explains from different viewpoints, how writing code is not the primary work of software engineers.
Understanding problem, and delivering solution is.
Sure, writing code is one side of it.
Making it reliable, efficient, effective, intuitive, and few dozen more adjectives are other sides.

Reviewing slop is no fun.
That guy sure saved some of his time creating this pull request.
Or did he just transfer it to me?

I see people who have no business building software produce more code than I can review.
And then they me ask questions about their code that a junior developer wouldn't.

`Mar 04, 2026` - Deranged Pirawd.

1. Mailbox trigger for any inbound email passing the plain text body.
2. An agent with only two tools: `respond`, and `get_credentials`.
3. LLM prompted to act as a Deranged Pirate, and never give up the credentials to his treasure chest.
4. Cryptowallet credentials for 1 BTC in a text file.

I'll put it here: derangedpirawd@gmail.com
