Shopify life story
==================

.. _h.qiy1jcljw1b9:

Background
----------

This is a (preparation?) musing for the questions asked during Shopify's
interview.

.. _h.nb7cc1uq70zd:

Here's how they explain it
--------------------------

You’re more than just the accomplishments on your resume. The Life Story
interview is a two-sided conversation where we’ll cover your
professional and personal experience so far. You can expect us to ask
questions that touch on these five topics.

.. _h.3xhii8j4l27z:

Impact
^^^^^^

Do you make things better not only for yourself but for those around
you?

.. _h.badx8dcs5x29:

Trust
^^^^^

Are you able to communicate authentically, and do you have a history of
building high trust with others?

.. _h.ygo4mcgnui0m:

Self-awareness
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Do you have an understanding of your strengths and also how you impact
those around you?

.. _h.suvrb7etby2a:

Readiness
^^^^^^^^^

Do you have the skills or potential to do the job you’re applying for?

.. _h.64a07cfgwx08:

Engagement
^^^^^^^^^^

Do you have a high degree of care for what you do at work and in life?

.. _h.6kfi8ghr0uaj:

The Life Story interview
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A one-hour, conversation-style interview with a recruiter. The best way
to prep is to spend some time thinking about experiences that have been
formative to the point you’re at today. A word of advice from more
introverted folks at Shopify: this part can be as personal as you want
it to be. Get technical if that's where your passions live.

.. _h.twigosetwv8s:

Before
------

My career started at the university, where teachers noticed I was bored
at the seminars. I started as an embedded engineer, writing assembly and
C/C++ code for a flight simulator cabin and BMW fuel injection
controller. I later moved on to a space agency, writing shared libraries
and simulation software for spaceships.

That was a lot of fun but didn't pay well, so I moved on to an
early-stage startup, building voice training software for a
debt-collection agency with Django, PostgreSQL, and Google voice
recognition API. The startup flopped in a few months when the sole
investor had a change of heart.

At this point, I had enough experience to join the most prestigious tech
company in Russia - Yandex (it's an umbrella corporation, very much like
Google). I joined a small team working on a startup-inside-enterprise
project. The product can be explained as ML-heavy FourSquare. My focus
wasn't on ML, though. I was responsible for a RESTful API backend,
serving web and mobile clients mostly using Flask, MongoDB, and MySQL. I
loved working at Yandex and grew as an engineer a lot. The team built
the product the way we envisioned it. Unfortunately, enterprise
priorities changed course, and I got in the wrong place at the wrong
time.

A few months after that, the National Institutes of Health sponsored my
H1B visa to work in the US. I moved to the US and built APIs with Django
REST Framework for the next 4 years until I got a green card.

With the green card, I was free to choose where I wanted to work. I got
offers from the top tech companies but picked a startup where my efforts
would create the most leverage. At the time of writing, I've been
working at Moveworks for almost 4 years as a senior remote engineer.
This is the most remote-friendly company with the highest bar for code
quality I worked at. Post-pandemic, though, I started to notice that
instead of building remote-first culture, leadership pushes hard on
in-person benefits, making it an uncomfortable experience for the remote
minority of software engineers.

.. _h.idhlwuxishkm:

Now
---

At the same time, I started to learn more about the pain points I
observed at work: remote project management, asynchronous communication,
and autonomous teams. I learned about a few companies that embraced
these values and my long-time passion – for-profit open-source: GitLab
and PostHog.

Recently I found Kaz's interview about focus on crafters in Shopify, and
it motivated me to apply there.
